Add ggplot2 files (#33)
plotly/plotly.r-docs: ggplot2/2015-08-10-getting-started_ggplot2_index.Rmd

---
name: Getting Started with Plotly
permalink: ggplot2/getting-started/
description: Get started with Plotly's R graphing library with ggplot2 to make interactive, publication-quality graphs online.
page_type: example_index
redirect_from: ggplot2/user-guide/
layout: base
language: ggplot2
---
# Plotly for R

Plotly is an R package for creating interactive web-based graphs via [plotly](https://plot.ly/)'s JavaScript graphing library, `plotly.js`.

> The [plotly R package](https://github.com/ropensci/plotly) serializes ggplot2 figures into Plotly's <a target="_blank" href="http://help.plot.ly/json-chart-schema/">universal graph JSON</a>. `plotly::ggplotly` will crawl the ggplot2 figure, extract and translate all of the attributes of the ggplot2 figure into JSON (the colors, the axes, the chart type, etc), and draw the graph with plotly.js. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [plotly R package](https://github.com/ropensci/plotly) serializes ggplot2 figures into Plotly's <a target="_blank" href="http://plot.ly/r/reference/">universal graph JSON</a>. `plotly::ggplotly` will crawl the ggplot2 figure, extract and translate all of the attributes of the ggplot2 figure into JSON (the colors, the axes, the chart type, etc), and draw the graph with plotly.js. 
```

```{r}

names(fig$x$layout)
```

```r
str(fig$x$layout)
```

```r
str(fig$x$layout$plot_bgcolor) # the background color of the plot is "rgb(229,229,229)"
```

```r
str(fig$x$layout$legend)
```

Each of these properties was extracted and translated from the original ggplot2 figure. [View all of the possible attributes](https://plot.ly/r/reference).

You can edit or add these attributes and then send the figure to Plotly. Let's add custom hover text (`text`), change the legend names (`name`) add a title (`layout$title`)

```{r}
fig$x$data[[1]]$name <- 'Group A'
fig$x$data[[1]]$text <- c('St Urbain', 'Gaspe')
fig$x$data[[1]]$type <- 'scatter'
fig$x$data[[1]]$mode <- 'lines'

fig$x$data[[2]]$name <- 'Group B'
fig$x$data[[2]]$text <- c('Laurier', 'Fairmount')
fig$x$data[[2]]$type <- 'scatter'
fig$x$data[[2]]$mode <- 'lines'

fig$x$layout$title <- 'Updated title'
```

Now, display this figure: 

```{r}
fig
```

#### Resources

- [ggplot2 examples](https://plot.ly/ggplot2)
- [Plotly's native R DSL](https://plot.ly/r)
- [Plotly's declarative graph description reference](https://plot.ly/r/reference)

> - [Plotly with Shiny](https://plot.ly/r/shiny-tutorial)

Reviewer: let's remove this line!

- [`plotly` R package on GitHub](https://github.com/ropensci/plotly)

> - [Plotly graphs in other languages](https://plot.ly/api)

Reviewer: remove this line
